Come a little closer and lend me your
ears.
Don't worry,
you keep yours while I keep mine.
In each episode,
we'll dig into the major stories,
uncover the truth,
and retrieve gems from Yarda's blog.
We'll discuss what's right,
bark about what's wrong,
wag our tails at the thrill of discovery,
and take you on adventures through the
exciting world we live in today.
So,
fasten your curiosity leash and get ready.
Right then,
coming to you with another episode of the
Yada's Vlog on a Blog,
tomorrow's news disseminated today.
Let's dive in.
Thank you, Wookie.
This is going to be a vlog on
a very different kind of blog.
We're going back to the basics.
My hope is that over the next month
that our team,
particularly Jon Vogt that created that
wonderful blog on the blog introduction,
can create one for us on the basics.
And that is where we are today.
We're gonna begin our first program of
what will probably be upwards of a hundred
overall programs on the basics.
All the time people,
query and say,
can you tell me about Passover?
I want to do it right.
Or, you know,
what's the terms and conditions of the
covenant again?
Why are you so certain that Yahowah's name
is pronounced Yahowah?
Why are you sure that Dowd is the
Messiah who fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym?
And
convinced that Jesus never existed.
Why are you so critical of Allah,
the Quran, Muhammad?
Each of these, in fact,
subsets of them will be part of the
basics where we talk about what things are
important for you to know.
And we will talk about things as
straightforward as what does Towrah mean?
And what are we to do regarding Towrah?
How are we to approach Towrah?
the Towrah and so all the way through
there will be subjects um that are
important for us to understand uh that
will be presented uh in a more um
i
some miracle kind of way so that we
don't go into perhaps as much detail as
we would on other things.
So it's be a summary version,
but yet with enough detail that you can
build a foundation of understanding.
How about that?
And I've decided that with Passover less
than two weeks away,
that it would be a nice beginning.
But
Don't think that just because these are
the basics that we're going to cut to
the chase and only present a to-do list,
because that wouldn't be helpful for you
at all.
Because Passover isn't about what you need
to do,
but instead what you should understand.
You see, it's already been done correctly.
Now it is our job to understand what
was done and how we can capitalize upon
it.
So let's begin.
You probably have been led to believe that
the first mention of Passover is during
the Exodus experience.
And if you're
influenced at all by Judaism,
then you think that Passover is the time
that God somehow managed to free the
children of Israel from the oppression in
Egypt.
But that's not true.
The first mention of this doorway to life,
and that's what Passover is all about.
Freedom comes by way of Matsah,
not Passover.
And the first mention is actually in the
first chapter of the first book of the
Towrah, in Bare’syth chapter one.
And there we find that God said that
there would be a greater Gadowl,
luminary maor, and a lesser Qatan,
luminary maor.
who would serve as willing signs,
as those who are willing to complete what
needs to be done regarding the
fulfillment of these Mowedym.
There are seven Mowedym in Yahowah's plan,
all that take us from our world to
God's.
And the first step is immortal life.
It's Passover.
Passover opens the doorway to life.
And it says that these two individuals,
the greater and lesser luminary,
would not only serve as signs that help
to explain the purpose of each of the
seven Mow'ed Miqra'ey,
but they would be the men who volunteered
to fulfill them.
And so that's the first mention of
Passover as the doorway to life.
Then, as we develop this understanding,
we find that the second mention is also
in the first book of the Towrah,
now in the second chapter.
You see, in the garden of great joy,
Gan Eden, there were two trees.
The first of those trees was the tree
of lives.
The second, the tree of knowledge.
And it's the purpose of the tree of
knowledge to explain how to capitalize
upon and enjoy more than one life through
the tree of lives.
That is the second dimension.
And the greater luminary is the tree of
lives.
And the lesser luminary is the tree of
knowledge.
So then we move through the Towrah and
the next mention of Passover is actually a
dress rehearsal for it.
We find Abraham,
who is the one with whom Yahowah conducted
the narrative pursuant to the covenant
relationship.
And Yitschaq,
while Yitschaq is his second born son,
Yitschaq is presented as your only son all
the way through this narrative.
Yahowah says,
your only son whom you love throughout the
discussion.
And we find him in year two thousand
Yah, nineteen sixty eight BCE,
going towards Mount Moriah with a couple
of witnesses who in other programs,
I will explain who they are and why
they were there.
And they then make their way to the
summit of Mount Moriah because that is
where Passover will be fulfilled.
Another two thousand years from this
moment in exactly the same place
with some of the same cast of characters
is when Passover would be fulfilled.
So their journey, Abraham's and Yitschaq's,
up Mount Moriah in year two thousand yah,
in nineteen sixty-eight BCE,
was the dress rehearsal for Passover.
Because as they approach for the
sacrifice, and there was a discussion of,
I see the wood, I see the fire,
but where is the sacrifice?
Looking for the lamb.
And when they reached the top,
we find Yahowah being very clear.
He says,
do not take the life of your son,
your only son, whom you love,
because I will provide the lamb.
And there in the thicket was the lamb
representing Dowd, God's firstborn son,
the Messiah,
our former and returning king.
He was represented.
by that lamb.
And there we find that God would indeed
provide the lamb to fulfill Passover and
through it deliver the first benefit of
the covenant, which is eternal life.
We thumb through it in the Towrah,
and the next mention of Passover,
of course, is during the, well,
actually before the Exodus,
as Moshe is trying to convince Pharaoh,
it would be Pharaoh Thutmose,
to release the children of Israel from
slavery.
And he has been quite reluctant up to
this point.
And no matter how destructive the plagues
continued to be or how embarrassing to the
egyptian gods we find pharaoh continuing
to say nope i'm not releasing my slaves
and he held them in both a an
apartheid situation where they had no
rights and genocidal where he was
murdering the first born sons of the
hebrews and so here we find
God's saying, I've got the final plague.
This is the one that will get his
attention.
And indeed,
we find that during that night,
Pharaoh took most of the great's son,
his eldest son.
His life was ended.
And we find as a result of this,
that the children of Israel would be
released from captivity,
but not that night.
That night,
there was a very specific event
series of events.
They were told that four days before this,
you're to bring the Passover lamb into the
home so that you get to know the
lamb and understand what it's doing there,
providing life for you.
It would make the sacrifice and it would
nourish you.
This is not a lamb being offered to
God.
This is a lamb as a form of
a meal being prepared.
on behalf of the children of Yisrael.
The blood of that lamb was put on
the doorway so that it served as a
sign,
the same kind of sign that we heard
Yahowah speak of in the first chapter of
Bare'syth
And so here we are with God being
very clear and saying that this is how
Passover is to be celebrated.
And it has nothing to do with being
freed from any place.
As the rabbis would say,
it has all to do with having the
lives extended in reference to a firstborn
son.
And it wasn't until Matsah the following
day,
which is the day that we are freed
from our religious and political guilt,
where it is taken away from us that
the children of Israel were freed from the
religious and political corruption that
was holding them captive in Mitsraym,
the crucibles of human oppression known as
Egypt today.
And so this would have been the third
expression of Passover.
Then within the Towrah,
there are multiple presentations of the
seven Mow'ed Miqra'ey.
And they make a dramatic discussion in the
Book of Qara
which means to be called out.
And God lays it on the line.
He says, this is what Passover represents.
And what we find is that the celebration
of Passover relates to the timing.
is fulfilled beginning on the fourteenth
day of the first month.
We determine the first month based upon
the two clues that God gave us in
his description in Mitsraym.
It is the month of Abib,
and we're told specifically that the
barley is now ready for harvest.
The winter crop of barley would be
harvestable while it is still green and
growing.
It's an unusual grain in that regard,
that it is actually ready.
sickled when it's still green and growing.
If you did the same thing to wheat,
it would rot, but not barley.
It needs to be harvested green and
growing,
and then it dries a bit on the
ground.
And so it's a barley harvest that occurs,
the winter barley harvest occurs very near
the winter, excuse me,
the spring equinox each year.
A couple of days ago,
we acknowledged that it was the spring
equinox.
And so it's always as the first renewing
light on the moon surface is observable,
closest to the spring equinox is how you
can determine the date.
The other thing that God said is the
flower of the flax would be in bud.
And that is a beautiful blue flower that
is used symbolically of many things.
It's the color of Shamaym, of the heavens.
But flax is the source of linen.
And linen is the garment that is used
by not only the priests, but by elders.
presentation of this is how you dress if
you want to be present in Yahowah's
immediate vicinity.
And so it's used for those purposes as
well.
So if you wanna tell when Passover will
be celebrated,
i would not recommend that you go to
the rabbis because they've come up with
their mathematical system to do a number
of things and it's always calculated as
opposed to being observed and it is always
to keep passover and easter from ever
coinciding so what i will do is we
have the ability at
the YadaYah.com site,
if you go to this volume of YadaYah,
this is volume seven.
And in the opening chapter,
you'll find a presentation of how those
dates are determined.
My view is that it's never appropriate to
be dogmatic and to tell you this is
the time and this is what you should
do.
Because if I were to do that,
you would learn nothing.
And if you learn nothing,
you're not in a position to capitalize on
what is being offered.
It's all about understanding that takes
precedence of when and how you do
something.
So in this case,
what you'll find is you'll see that
The first of Abib is presented with a
number of options.
You'll see option one is astronomical.
In this particular year,
it is one half of one percent of
the moon's renewing light on the moon's
surface that is observable right at about
or just past sunset,
which means you couldn't see it under any
circumstances.
and at half of one percent after sunset
which would be the start of a new
day i will never use that as my
starting point the rabbis this year have
decided to use that as their as their
starting point i think it's foolish to do
so uh it's the following day uh in
year uh that becomes the um uh that
there's enough renewing light i think
almost three percent you'll find on that
site
to designate that this is the first day
of a new month.
And so under that basis,
you can establish the countdown and it's
fourteen days.
Now,
fourteen days would bring you to the
evening of the of the thirteenth day,
which this year happens to be the second
of April.
I think it's a Friday evening this year.
And on the second of April would be
the beginning of the fourteenth day.
Now,
the Hebrew day starts in the day as
it's presented in the Towrah,
starts at sunset and runs through the
following sunset.
So it's not like the calendar that
We operate on in our daily lives where
the day begins at the strike of midnight,
which is a very strange place to start
today.
But that is where it starts.
And with the Hebrew calendar,
it starts at
And God does that for a lot of
reasons.
And one of those reasons happens to be
the fulfillment of Pesach.
He wanted his beloved son, Dowd,
to be able to enjoy Pesach with his
brothers and his mother and father prior
to serving as the Passover lamb.
And he could do so with Passover
being celebrated the evening of the
thirteenth day as the sun sets on what
we would call the thirteenth day as the
beginning of the fourteenth.
And that would give him the opportunity to
enjoy the meal with his family and then
serve as the Passover lamb the following
day, which is still Passover.
so that's the timing of it uh passover
is not a seven day celebration as it
is presented uh by the rabbis it is
just uh the first day of chag Matsah
and chag Matsah is the seventh day
celebration.
And so it's during Chag Matsah that we
remove yeast from our homes,
which is symbolic of religious and
political guilt and malfeasance,
wrongdoing,
being misled and misleading through
religion and politics.
We remove that from our homes and we
eat
uneasted bread.
Yeast is a fungus and it is pervasive
and it corrupts everything within
something that is baked like bread.
So we just remove this fungus of yeast
symbolically from our homes and from our
diet to say that we understand what is
taking place here.
So on Passover itself,
There is very little specified in terms of
the meal.
It is to be lamb.
That part is set in stone.
And the lamb does not matter what part
of the lamb that you eat,
but it shouldn't be the fattiest portions.
And certainly you don't want to eat the
things that would be called internal
organs or the head or something of that
nature.
We when we prepare our lamb is always
roasted or barbecued in our case over a
fire,
which was how it would have presented be
presented long ago.
And so it was.
We always barbecued.
We choose lamb chops or rack of lamb.
It just seems like an ideal way to
enjoy lamb.
And then we always serve Matsah,
which is un-yeasted bread,
and prepare a mix of olive oil and
bitter herbs.
The recipe of bitter herbs is up to
you.
Again, there are no rules that say,
you must have this batch of herbs and
it must be in this type of olive
oil or this is the recipe for Matsah.
No,
the whole rules is a rabbinical scheme for
the rabbis to control people's lives and
to burden them such that the rabbis are
enriched and the people are impoverished.
bitter herbs,
just spices that you think make the olive
oil more flavorful,
but give a bit of bitterness because what
happened on this day was bitter, bitter,
bitter for the Passover lamb.
And you serve the Matsah, the olive oil,
and the lamb beginning the meal at sunset.
And
I will always serve,
not that it's prescribed for it,
but a glass of red wine.
Since we are no longer in the kind
of agrarian culture where we would bring a
living lamb into our homes at the fourth
day before Passover and then prepare that
lamb such that we could collect some of
its blood and with some hyssop,
rub it on the doorpost,
We use the
red wine as a means to disclose this
whole concept of showing that symbolism so
that God knows that we know and that
we appreciate the blood that was shed to
open the doorway to life.
And that's why it's on the doorway.
It's the doorway to life,
the doorway to God's home,
the doorway to immortality is Passover.
And God just wants us to know that,
you know, that's the plan here.
That is what's being accomplished.
Now,
because God gives us these instructions,
we take the remaining part of the uneaten
lamb from our Passover meal,
and we will put it on the barbecue
at high heat and essentially incinerate
the rest of it that night.
That is why this notion in Christianity
that the Passover lamb became twinkle
toes, took a nap on Matsah,
and then came back to life bodily
resurrected on
on what would be their Easter,
but would be the day.
It's just utter nonsense.
The remains of that body are incinerated.
And so that's just a part of the
explanation that God gave so that we
wouldn't be foolish enough to believe the
lies of a religion like Christianity.
All right, so that's the process.
That's the meal.
That's where it is all presented.
But the most interesting part of Passover,
something that is missed by every
religion.
So you have two thirds of the world
completely missing this.
And that remaining one third doesn't get
it right,
but at least they're not indoctrinated to
get it wrong.
And that is that the Zarowa,
The sacrificial lamb of Passover,
according to God, is his beloved son,
Dowd.
God says emphatically in the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr that,
Dowd is the one through whom he executed
the benefits of the covenant,
through whom he established the covenant.
And so with Dowd being the one he
established the covenant,
it has to be Dowd is the one
who fulfilled Passover, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym that enable the benefits of
the covenant.
And so it's Dowd, according to God.
You read the first thirty-five Mizmowr or
psalms, they all say the same thing,
that Dowd volunteered.
to serve as the Passover lamb.
When you go into the book of Daniel
and you open the ninth chapter and you
present it properly translated,
and I have done so in a number
of the books that I have written,
what you find is that the person making
the presentation regarding the fulfillment
of Passover happens to be the Passover
lamb himself.
It's Dowd.
He is under the name of Gabry'el
Gibowr El means that he is God's most
capable and courageous man.
That's what Gabry'el means.
He is identified both times that he
appears as a man.
He is not a Malak spiritual messenger,
a man.
And it's Dowd who explained exactly when
he would fulfill Passover.
This is one of the more interesting
aspects of the
purpose of Passover is that.
Five hundred and fifty five BCE,
almost six hundred years before Dowd
fulfilled Passover,
he gave the exact date in year four
thousand years, which is thirty three CE.
that he would complete his commitment to
enable the benefits of the covenant by
fulfilling what is Chag Matsah,
which is a seven day celebration.
And he gave us the seventh day of
Matsah as that date.
And you can work out the timing through
the prophecy that he provided,
which
commences in terms of the decree to build
the walls,
rebuild the walls of Jerusalem in four
forty four BCE,
a decree of Artaxerxes and his twentieth
year.
And you run through the math that takes
you directly.
To the concluding day of Chag Matsah,
of which Passover is the first of those
days in year four thousand year thirty
three CE,
a precise fulfillment of what had been.
told to us,
so there should have been absolutely no
one who missed the very fact that Dowd,
as Gabry'el,
told us precisely the year and the day
that he would fulfill Pesach,
including Chag Matsah.
Also, in Dowd's twenty-second Mizmowr,
or Psalm, and again in the eighty-eighth,
the one who fulfilled Passover, Dowd,
writes a first person account of exactly
what would occur.
And he says emphatically that he would be
crucified.
He describes the process of crucifixion
and specifically denotes how crucifixion
kills,
what the physiological effects are of
crucifixion.
Some seven hundred years in advance of
crucifixion even being invented.
And then this is some six hundred years
before Rome, who perfected crucifixion,
even existed.
And he is delineating in first person how
he's going to be crucified.
And yet the most popular religion in the
world somehow managed to steal that from
him and pretend that this misnomer, Jesus,
was the one who was crucified.
It's not true.
It's a Dowd.
And I think it's the greatest discovery in
human history to recognize who our Savior
is, what he did in thirty three C.E.
He was the one who was crucified.
That's why in Isaiah nine,
God says that it's Dowd who is the
son who is given to us.
He is the child who was born at
that time.
He is the son who is given to
us.
And he is then described as the lamb
who takes away the sin of the world
in Isaiah.
It's all there for you.
Easy to understand.
Clearly presented by God.
That it's Dowd, David,
who opened the doorway to life by
fulfilling Passover.
And so when you recognize that Dowd is
the one whom Yahowah said,
he is my firstborn.
He is the Messiah that I personally
anointed.
I am his father.
He is Elyown,
which means he is all things pertaining to
the influence of God.
And that he is the one who is
returning,
which means he will be returning with
Yahowah on Yowm Kipurym,
the second of October in twenty thirty
three.
And that he is the one through whom
God said explicitly.
That he.
established the covenant which is our only
way to meet with god to be in
god's presence to live beyond this mortal
existence and that he did it through Dowd
and that Dowd is his chosen one it
means that you want to celebrate passover
this year well then you need to know
who fulfilled it what it delivers which is
the
initial benefit of the covenant to become
immortal that it is part of chag Matsah
the first day of Matsah because if you
were to celebrate passover in a manner
that uh clicked every box you understand
exactly how it was fulfilled when it was
fulfilled and you know when it's fulfilled
by the way you know when dote's going
to be returning because the dress
rehearsal with Yitschaq
for Passover was in year two thousand YAH,
in nineteen sixty eight BCE.
Dowd gave us the exact date of his
fulfillment in thirty three CE,
year four thousand YAH in thirty three.
So what do you think year six thousand
YAH is?
Twenty thirty three.
And what is the homecoming?
It's Yowm Kipurym,
the day of reconciliation.
So you know now exactly the day that
God is returning.
And you know that that seven year period
of troubles has to commence
therefore on this Shabuwah leading to it.
So you know a lot of things when
you know the timing,
but if you were to do everything
perfectly, you're circumcised,
which is a requirement.
If you are not circumcised as a man,
you cannot participate in Passover.
And God wants that to be known so
that you don't screw up as it relates
to the point I'm making now.
If you were to celebrate Passover
perfectly,
and you understand everything it
represents, and you're right there,
but you're not circumcised,
you're not a member of the covenant,
and you don't recognize that Pesach is
simply the first day of Matsah,
and that the important celebration,
the essential date is Matsah,
when your guilt is removed,
you will become eternal,
but eternally separated from God because
you retain your guilt.
It is the most counterproductive thing you
could possibly do.
When Satan invented Jesus through the
demon-possessed Paul and focused on a
crucifixion that was on Passover,
but had his pretend man-God napping in the
grave and doing nothing on Matsah,
he assured that everyone who believes him
will follow him to hell.
So that's a very,
very bad thing to do.
Do not be like the Christians.
Don't be like the Jews either because the
rabbinical celebration of Passover is not
part of Matsah.
They're doing exactly the same thing to
Jews,
assuring that everyone who celebrates
Passover their way is going to find
themselves in Sheowl.
That is the burden of doing it wrong,
of not knowing what you're doing,
of separating Passover from Matsah,
of not recognizing too that Dowd is the
one who enabled this.
So do not make that mistake.
If you're uncircumcised as a man,
you cannot be part of the covenant because
it's the fifth condition of the covenant.
And you cannot participate in Passover,
nor should you,
because if you were deemed to have done
it in a way that you could benefit
from eternal life,
that eternal life would be forever
estranged from God and therefore spent in
Sheowl.
So it's essential that you know what the
day represents, who fulfilled it.
when they fulfilled it.
Because the moment you know that it's Dowd
who fulfilled Passover,
then you're looking at Dowd's life to say,
what is it about him that God found
so reassuring, so beneficial,
so desirable that he chose him above all
others?
And what did Dowd do to earn God's
respect and trust in that manner?
And that opens up the floodgates of
understanding for everyone.
And so I thank you for listening to
this, the first presentation of basics,
this being Passover.
I hope that you're in a position where
you're aware of the five terms and
conditions of the covenant so that you can
celebrate Passover knowing that it's the
first day of Chag Matsah and appreciate
what you're doing and what transpired
previously so that you can capitalize.
on this marvelous opportunity to live
forever in God's home as part of his
presence.
Such is Pesach.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.